All right, welcome back.
So in the last lesson, we got this first test working now, although the test is working, we're not
actually doing any real database things yet.
And the reason for that is because the test isn't forcing us to.
So as a quick reminder of what TDD is all about.
With test driven development, we try to limit adding any features or capabilities to that code until
a test forces us to do so.
And so that's why in order to get this one test passing, I simply hardcoded a one into the Get ID method
here, right?
So if we just go take a quick rate, I just hard coded to one there because that was the simplest thing
I could do.
Obviously, that's not what we really want, but we're going to kind of play a cat and mouse game with
the tests to force ourselves to write proper tests that will then justify us adding more code to the
implementing code here.
OK.
And one of the reasons for that is because quite often when developers write the code that they assume
needs to exist, sometimes they end up writing extraneous code.
And the more code you have in your project, the more likelihood of bugs ending up in your project.
So by only writing the code that the tests force you to write, you actually end up reducing the opportunities
to introduce bugs into the code while simultaneously also writing implementing code that is easily testable
because that's the only way you got the code in there is by writing tests.
All right.
So having said that, we know that this is not a true, workable implementation for this, so we need
to force ourselves to write the real database code.
So the question is, how can we do that?
So if we go back over here to the test, what I'm thinking is let's write a second test.
And in the second Test, let's have that test, create two people and save them all in one test.
And the test will simply confirm that the two saved people don't both have the same ID because right
now, if we were to write that test without changing any implementing code, that test would fail.
Right?
All right.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And because that's what we're going to do, I think I'm inclined to change the name of this test method
now to something kind of compared to the next test that we're going to write.
So in the next test, we're going to save two people.
So maybe I'm going to call this one something like I can save one person.
All right.
All right, so let's get started with the second Test then, so here's our annotation public void and
maybe this is can save two people.
All right, so now maybe I will start by doing a little copy pasta as some of the young coder kids like
to say these days.
Copy paste for the old, for the old folks out there.
All right.
So we're going to start off by just having this one person here and then maybe we just duplicate this
line and make another one.
So I don't know.
I'm just making up a name here, Bobby.
And let's change this name to Bobby, and I don't know, we'll change a few, a few details.
All right.
So there's that second person, and then let's go ahead and save this second person.
Bobby.
And let's just call the first one salesperson one and save the person, too.
And so now maybe we assert that the idea of saved person one is not equal to the idea of saved person
to maybe, maybe let's try that.
OK, so saved person.
One that get I.D. is.
And honestly, I'm not sure what methods we have here for that.
So let's see is well, I know we could say just is not equal to yeah, I guess we can just do that.
That makes a lot of sense, doesn't it is not equal to.
There you go.
Is not equal to saved person to get I.D..
Right.
All right.
I think that looks about right to me now.
I do see some duplication of code here, and that is something that we can address.
But let's go ahead and run this first and just see what we get.
And then maybe we'll address the duplication after we get the basics.
Just all working again.
OK, so let's go ahead and run this.
And that predictably fails because I know that we're getting a hard coded one in the Get ID for both
of these people now expecting actual one not to be equal to one.
Right.
So we're getting one for both, and that's not how it's supposed to be.
All right.
So now I think I'm inclined to go ahead and write the real database code.
I'm not inclined to play too many more cat and mouse games with, you know, trying to get this to pass
without doing the real work.
Because let's see.
I mean, what would what would we even do?
I I am giving it a little consideration, but I don't think it's worth any effort here to to do.
I mean, I guess we could do like, you know, generate a random number or something like that.
But that feels like it would take us actually somehow down a worse road than just going ahead and implementing
the real code at this point.
Now there may be some TDD practitioners who may, you know, disagree with me, but that's that's what
I'm judging to make the most sense at this point.
All right.
So I think we're going to get into the good stuff now.
So let's jump back over here.
All right.
So one of the very first things we're going to need if we're going to be talking to the database via
our Java code is a connection to the H2 database.
And the way we can get that connection is by using one of the JTBC classes, which is called driver
manager.
That is the class that is responsible for managing connections to a database.
Now we're going to actually utilize this class from within our tests rather than by putting it into
our repository.
It might have been natural to actually want to put this in the repository, but I will show a little
bit later why, in this particular case, I don't want to do that.
We could, but I don't want to.
And so you'll see why shortly.
All right.
So to use the driver manager, all we have to do is to reference driver manager and it's under the Java
Dot sequel package.
And then we can call the Get Connection method.
And there are a few overloaded versions, but for right now, we just can take this first one here,
that connection that takes a string of a URL.
All right.
And so now we need to pass in a URL.
So where are we going to get that URL from?
Well, if you recall, we had to use a URL to make our initial connection to H2 database from within
the scroll SQL client.
So we can actually just jump over to scroll sequel and grab the URL right out of there.
So here we are in the scroll SQL client, and if you go to the aliases here, you can just make sure
you open up the alias there.
These should have the database alias for the people test and then you can right click on it and go down
to modify alias.
And so that just brings back open the little dialog window here, where we initially specified the URL
and so you can select that URL and then do a control.
See now one note if you're on a Mac, you actually still need to do a control C, not a command C for
some reason.
The Command C just doesn't work correctly here.
So Control C and for Windows, it's all already control C.
All right, so control C to copy that.
And then I'm going to just close this down and jump back over to the ADC now.
OK.
So here we are in the IDF.
Got my quotes ready and now I can just do a command v now for Mac users, it's command v over here to
paste.
All right, so there we go.
Now, another thing I need to point out is that this tilde here represents your home directory, the
path to your home directory.
And in the Squirrel sequel client that tilde works on Windows, Mac and Linux.
But in your Java code, the tilde does not work on Windows.
So it seems that what's actually happening in Squirrel Client is that Squirrel Client is smart enough
to see that we're using that tilde and actually translates it into your actual home directory path,
no matter what operating system you're on.
But our code isn't quite smart enough to do that, as is, but we can probably make it be approximately
that smart.
OK, so in other words, if you're following along in windows and you use that tilde, this isn't going
to work for you.
It's not going to find the people test file in your home directory.
But here's what we can do to help it along.
So since this URL that we're passing in is really just the string, we can actually just use one of
the string methods to replace that tilde with whatever the path is to your home directory and you don't
even have to know what.
That path is explicitly because I'm going to show you a little trick here.
So if you do a dot replace and I think I taught this method OK, so it takes an input of some text within
this string that you want to search for, which in this case would be the tilde.
And then you can supply it as a second parameter.
The text that you want to replace the tilde with?
OK.
So we're going to select that and then we're going to say to search for tilde.
OK, so that's what we wanted to find.
And then we want to replace it with the path to our home directory.
No matter what operating system run, Java actually knows this path and to have Java tell it to us.
We need to invoke system.
So the same system that we invoke when we do system that out that print line, this system class actually
has a ton of really cool functionality on it.
And now we're going to call system get property.
So when Java applications start up, they have access to a lot of standard system property information
like Where's your home directory?
Where is Java installed?
All sorts of things.
OK.
And there's actually a list of all of these standard properties known by their keys, because this is
essentially just the map.
OK.
And we can actually just invoke one of those standard keys to get access access to our home directory.
Let me show you that real quick, in fact.
OK, so if you go into a browser and you Google for a Java system property list, you will find a link
that will take you to this page in the Java documentation.
And here we've got a list of some of the most popular keys that the Java system that get property method
understands.
And the one that we care about is this one down here, users at home.
That is the path to your home directory, no matter what operating system you're on, users at home.
So if we jump back over to the add e-mail.
We can actually just use that users at home just like that and then go to the end of all these three
parentheses and semicolon.
OK, so what we're saying here is for this string here.
Replace the tilde that is in this string with the home directory that we can obtain by calling system
that get property users at home.
OK, so that will replace fertility with whatever our actual home directory is.
And I wouldn't be surprised if Squirrel sequel is actually just doing pretty much this exact same code
for us.
All right, so there's that.
Now we've got an issue get connection.
If we hover over this, we see that the Get Connection method is capable of throwing a Java sequel sequel
exception.
And so we need to decide what to do with that for right now, because this is a test and not our implementation
code, like not the real code that we would actually be running for, you know, doing real work.
This is the test code that test the real work.
I'm OK to actually just allow the ADP to add the exception to the method signature here.
OK.
So if we just click on, add exception to Method Signature.
So now it just adds a throws sequel exception.
This is OK in this case for now, because what this means is that if anything didn't work in our attempt
to establish a connection to this database, that exception is going to be thrown.
And if that exception is thrown, the best thing we would probably want to have happen within the context
of running this test is for the test to fail and tests will fail automatically if an exception is thrown
and not caught within the test code.
So in fact, if we were to do something like this, I just if we were to, you know, actually explicitly
throw a try catch block.
You don't need to follow me here.
I'm just showing you this, right?
If we were to do this, this would actually be bad because with this approach having an explicit try
catch here, this connection could fail and an exception could be thrown.
But our test could still pass because in this case, our assertion here would never be reached.
And if you don't have an assertion in a test, the test passes by default.
OK, which I kind of wish G-Unit didn't work that way, but that is how it happens to work.
So you could actually end up with a false sense of security running by running a bunch of tests and
seeing that they all pass even though exceptions are being thrown like crazy.
OK, so in this particular case, and in most cases in my experience, it's often not a good idea to
surround your test code with a try catch.
Now there are some exceptions to that no pun intended, but this isn't one of them.
OK, so you don't want to do that here.
It's actually better to just let the exception bubble up through the method.
And what will end up happening is that the unit code that we don't write that actually, you know,
runs our tests, it will receive this exception and then fail our test, which is actually a good thing.
We want this test to fail if there's a problem connecting to the database.
All right.
So now we are getting our connection, but now we need to do something with that connection.
So the first thing we probably want to do is to just capture it.
So I'm going to put my cursor here at the end and do an option Command V. and capture that connection.
And I'm OK to just refer to it as connection.
And I'm kind of running off the screen here.
So there's our connection now, our database code itself.
Other than establishing the connection, our database code will actually live inside of this repository,
so the repository needs to get its hands on this connection.
And so one of the nicest ways that we can actually get that connection in to the repository is actually
to just pass it in through the constructor.
So I'm going to just do this now.
When I do this, we're going to get a red squiggly because there is not currently a constructor on the
repository that can accept the connection.
So if I hover the mouse over this red squiggly, I get the option from the ADP to create that constructor.
And yes, I do want that.
So I'm going to click on that.
There we go.
And then I will accept that type of connection.
That's fine to hit return and I will accept the name of connection as well.
Hit return there, and we're actually going to need that to become a field of the class.
So I'm going to go ahead and just create that field right here.
Private Connect.
Oops.
Connection connection.
Like so then we'll come down here and say this connection equals connection.
Then we'll jump back over here.
Now that I've done that, I've got an error down here because I do not have a new ARG default constructor
anymore.
Remember that if you don't write your own explicit content.
Structure for a class.
Java will give you a no default constructor automatically, and that's what this was referring to.
But as soon as you write your own constructor that does take arguments, you will no longer get the
Java automatically generated no ARG default constructor for you.
And so you will then have to write your own or do something different, right?
So what I'm inclined to do to make this happy is actually to make this connection a field of the test
itself so that I can refer to it from all tests.
So I will actually just put my cursor right here and then do an option command f for field.
And if you'll recall, I have the option of specifying where I want to initialize this connection.
Currently, it's being initialized in line right here in the method.
And that's what this option here is for current method.
But if I click on this dropdown, we could do it in the field declaration or in a constructor or in
a setup.
Since this is a test, I'm inclined to go ahead and actually do this in a setup method.
Someone to select that.
All right, and then hit return.
And so what has happened now is this whole entire driver manager code has been pulled up into a setup
method.
And now I'm back to the other issue that we had before, though, of needing to handle the exception
here.
But I'm going to handle it the same way I did before and just tell it to add the exception method to
the signature of the setup method now, because it's the same thing.
If it fails here, that will cause any tests that are depending on this setup to fail as well.
And that's what I would actually want to have happen in this case.
And now I can come down here and refer to this same connection down here as well.
And now all of my code is happy again.
And I think this is probably a good place for us to go ahead and stop and give you a little break.
And when we pick back up in the next lesson, we'll jump right into the repository class and see what
we can do with this connection class.
So I'll see you in the next one.